Sqlite:
is an ACID-compliant embedded relational database management system contained in a relatively small
C programming library.The source code for SQLite is in the public domain and implements most of the
SQL standard.


Sqlite Advantages:
   1. Speed
    • In many cases at least 2-3 times faster then MySQL/PostgreSQL.
    • Fast PHP interface.
   2.Functionality
    • Sub-selects, Triggers, Transactions, Views.
    • Up to 2TB of data storage.
    • Small memory footprint.
    • Self-contained: no external dependencies.
    • Atomic commit and rollback protect data integrity.
    • Easily movable database.
   3. Security
    • Each user has their own completely independent database(s).


Sqlite Disadvantages:
   1. It's Slow
     • Locks whole file for writing.
   2. Limited
     • Database size restricted to 2GB in most cases.
     • Not very scalable.

SQL Features That SQLite Does Not Implement

1.RIGHT and FULL OUTER JOIN

2.Complete ALTER TABLE support

3.Complete trigger support

4.Writing to VIEWs

5.GRANT and REVOKE


Installing Sqlite on ubuntu:

sudo apt-get install SQLite3 


SQLite database.

$ sqlite3 <database name>.db 

example :
$ sqlite3 mydatabase.db

If you already have a database file called which you entered then you can select and access 
that database with the same command.If the database file does not exist this command will 
create it.
After creating the database we need to create tables and insert the data in to that tables:

Creating tables in sqlite:

create table <table_name> (field1 datatype , field2 datatype.....); 

example:
CREATE TABLE college(student_id integer primary key,student_name text,student_info text);


In sqlite the constraints are
NOT NULL
DEFAULT,
PRIMARY KEY AND FOREIGN KEY
CHECK,
UNIQUE

We can use these constraints while creating tables.so if you are not clear with these constraints? then go with this link
http://zetcode.com/databases/sqlitetutorial/constraints/ 

So after creating tables we have to insert data in to the table.

Inserting data in to the tables:
The queries syntax are same as mysql 
insert into table_name (field1,feild2,....) values(value1,value2,....);

example :
insert into college(student_id,student_name,student_info) values(1,'ram','10th class,age 16 years');


